---
title:  "Controlling the Logitech G29 LEDs with telemetry from Richard Burns Rally with Rust"
date:   2023-06-24 10:22:35 +0100
categories: programming, rust
---
The Logitech G29 racing wheel contains a small array of LEDs in the center that is used to indicate the engine's current RPM when it is close to the maximum and gives an indication when to shift. Support for these LEDs generally depend on the application. Many recent racing games have built-in support for the LEDs, while older have not (the hardware wasn't available back then after all). While there are some generic approaches to drive the LEDs for custom applications (such as [Fanaleds](www.fanaleds.com)), the issue is mostly that the support for a particular game varies or requires a lot of configuration.

As different cars have different RPM ranges, maxium RPM and shift points, it's also not possible to uniformly derive the state of the LEDs for a given value. Racing games often provide real-time telemetry in form of UDP servers which can be used by external hard- or software to display or record data.

Since Richard Burns Rally (RBR) is 19 years old by this time, support for modern hardware is lacking. The G29 itself is supported, but not the LEDs. Which is why I have written [RBR2G29](https://github.com/lennartb-/RBR2G29), a small Rust application that controls the LEDs with data coming from RBRs telemetry. The application is a fork of [DR2G27](https://github.com/Andris0/DR2G27), a similar application for the G27 wheel and Dirt Rally 2.

## Controlling the LEDs

Interfacing with the G29 is moderately difficult. Logitech provides an SDK for C/C++ and bindings for C#, which is however more geared towards applications that use the wheel itself. The C# bindings don't officially support alternate window handles, which means you are stuck to your application window - as soon as your window goes out of focus, no commands are send to the wheel anymore. Since this application runs in the background of the main program (RBR), communication via the C# SDK doesn't seem to be viable.

Another option is to adress the device directly on a low level. It was surprisingly easy to find the necessary bytes for this: in the [Linux kernel source](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/drivers/hid/hid-lg4ff.c#L1088).
